1. Why MapReduce program is needed in Pig Programming?

Hadoop is a java based framework for data analysis.
The pig queries are converted into mapreduce programs internally.
Pig statements have syntax similar to SQL queries.
It has to be converted to mapreduce jobs to be executed in hadoop.


2. What are advantages of Pig over MapReduce?

MapReduce needs to be written in java language.
Whereas pig queries are Sql based queries.
It make them easier to think and write.
MapReduce are in terms of mapper and reducer.
Pig Script is more efficient than mapreduce because 
* The number of lines in a Pig Script is comparatively very much lesser than that of complex map reduce programs.


3. What is Pig engine and what is its importance?

Pig Engine is a component of apache Pig.
It takes pig latin scripts as input.
It converts them into MapReduce jobs.

4. What are the modes of Pig execution?

Local mode: 
The pig script is executed in the local unix path. 
The input files are in the Local file system.

MapReduce mode:
The pig Script is executed in the Hadoop cluster.
The input and output paths are in the HDFS.

5. What is Grunt Shell in Pig?


It is a interactive shell.
Here,we can execute the pig commands directly from the bash rather than as a Script file.

6. What are the features of Pig Latin language?

It is easier to write Pig Latin than writing complex mapreduce jobs.
The Pig Latin is automatically converted to Mapreduce jobs by the execution engine.
It has support to process huge amounts of data.
It has many built-in operators and also supports the creation of user defined functions in other programming languages
and invoke in pig scripts.



7. Is Pig Latin commands case sensitive?

Case Sensitive commands:
relations
fields
pig latin functions 

Case Insensitive commands:
Parameters name
All other pig latin keywords are case insensitive.

8. What is a data flow language?

Data flow programming is a programming paradigm.
It models a program as a directed graph of the data flowing between operations.
It implements dataflow principles and architecture.
